# Draft Constitution of the World Association

## Preambule

The Initial Members of the Association express their wish for the Association to exist for the Purpose described in Article 3 below and have adopted these Articles by each signing a transaction on a decentralized ledger of their choice with the following transaction hash: [HASH]

## I. Name, Seat, Purpose Means and Resources

### 1. Name and Duration

An association within the meaning of Articles 60 et seq. of the Swiss Civil Code (“CC”) is hereby created under the name World Association
(hereafter, the “Association”), with smart contract address [ADDRESS] (hereafter, the “Association Smart Contract”).

The Association is created for an indefinite period of time.

### 2. Seat

The Association’s seat is in the Canton of Zug.

### 3. Purpose

The Purpose of the Association is to provide democratic solutions to our pressing global challenges.

### 4. Means

The Association may undertake any lawful activity appropriate to the achievement of its purpose.

### 5. Resources

Resources of the Association may come from donations and grants, legacies, sponsorship, partnerships, public subsidies, membership fees, revenues generated by the Association’s assets, as well as any other resources authorized by the law.

All resources of the Association shall be used exclusively for its not-for-profit purposes.

## II. Members

### 6. Members

Members of the Association (the “Members”) shall consist of individuals or organizations who have an interest in the purpose and activities of the Association and wish to support it.

### 7. Commencement of Membership

The founders with wallet addresses specified in Schedule A are the initial Members of the Association.

Additional Members may join the Association subject to a General Assembly vote. The General Assembly may delegate its powers to admit new Members to the Board or a distinct body, provided such delegation can at all times be revoked by General Assembly vote.

### 8. End of Membership

Membership is neither transferable nor heritable.

Membership ceases:

1. Upon the resignation of the Member without notice and in the way determined by the Association’s internal regulations;
2. Upon the passing away of the Member if such Member is an individual and not the representative of an institution; or
3. By exclusion decided by the General Assembly.

The Membership Fee, if any, remains due for the current year by the exiting Member.

A resigning or expelled Member has no right to the Association’s assets.

### 9. Membership Fees

The General Assembly decides whether Membership Fees will apply and their amount.

## III. Organization and Governance

### 10. Bodies of the Association

The bodies of the association are:

1. The General Assembly;
2. The Board;
3. External Auditors, insofar as required by Swiss law.

## IV. The General Assembly

### 11. Principles

The General Assembly is the supreme authority of the Association within the meaning of article 64 et seq. CC.

It is composed of all the Members.

### 12. Powers

The General Assembly delegates to the Board the power to administer and represent the Association.

The General Assembly remains with the following inalienable powers :

1. Adoption and amendment of the Association’s Articles;
2. Nomination, supervision and revocation of External Auditors;
3. Approval of annual reports and audited accounts;
4. Admission and exclusion of Members;
5. Nomination, supervision, discharge and revocation of Board members;
6. Decision on the dissolution or merger of the Association; and
7. Management of all matters that are not the responsibility of other bodies

### 13. Meetings

1.  Ordinary meetings of the General Assembly

    1.1. The Ordinary meeting of the General Assembly shall be held at least once a year in the matter and at a time decided by the Board by giving sufficient notice to all Members.

    1.2. Such notice can be given by electronic means including by email or message boards or the Association’s chosen governance forum and is to include an agenda for the meeting.

2.  Extraordinary meeting of the General Assembly

    Extraordinary meetings of the General Assembly may be called by the Board or at the request of at least 20 percent of all Members.

3.  Quorum

    The General Assembly is validly instituted if at least one third of the members are present.

4.  The Chair

    The Chair, and in his/her absence the Deputy Chair (as defined in article 17 below), shall chair the meetings of the General Assembly

5.  Meeting modes

    Meetings can be held either (i) onsite, whether in Switzerland or abroad, (ii) by video conference, (iii) in a hybrid manner (mix of onsite and video conference), (iv) by participation via a chosen governance platform such as snapshot.org, provided that all requirements for onsite general assembly meetings are fulfilled.

    Hybrid and virtual meetings must offer the same possibilities as an in-person meeting. In particular, the following conditions must be met:

    1. the identity of participants must be established and verified. In the case of an onchain voting, Members agree that the identity of the participants is established and verified cryptographically;

    2. a simultaneous transmission of the debates must be ensured, allowing also participants to ask questions live, or in the case of onchain voting, by way of a message board or official voting platform where messages can be posted for the entire duration of the onchain vote;

    3. In the case of hybrid meetings, virtual participants must have the ability to participate in the same manner as those present in person.

    4. Members agree that the results of an onchain vote, due to the use of cryptography, shall be deemed unforgeable;

    5. Members agree that onchain voting sufficiently protects the data of each participating Member.

6.  Independent representative

    The appointment of an independent representative is not necessary for meetings taking place in Switzerland, online or in a hybrid form. Members hereby waive the appointment of an independent representative for meetings held onsite outside Switzerland.

### 14. Decisions and Voting Rights

1. Voting rights

   Each Member shall have an equal voting right at the General Assembly.

2. Power of attorney

   Members may vote in person or by proxy, or in the case of an onchain vote, by delegation.

3. Process

   Voting takes place by a show of hands or through an electronic voting process, including the use of distributed ledger technology

4. Majority of votes

   All decisions shall require a simple majority of all votes expressed (including votes by proxy), insofar as the present Statutes do not provide for a different majority.

5. Decisions by circular letter and on onchain proposals

   Proposals to which all Members have adhered in writing, including onchain proposals approved by way of the use of a Member’s private key on the Association’s chosen distributed ledger technology, are equivalent to decisions taken by the General Assembly, in accordance with article 66 para. 2 CC.

6. Conflict of interest

   In accordance with article 68 CC, a Member may not vote for decisions relating to a matter or a legal proceeding regarding the Association where he or she, his or her spouse, parents or relatives in direct line are a party to the matter.

7. Minutes

   The meetings of the General Assembly and its decisions are recorded in the minutes. Members agree that a transaction hash timestamped on the Association’s distributed ledger technology where it conducts its meetings constitute valid minutes.

## V. The Board

### 15. Principles

1. Role and powers

   The Board is the executive body of the Association. It has the right and the duty to manage the affairs of the Association and to represent it in accordance with the Statutes. In particular, the Board shall take all necessary measures to achieve the purposes of the Association, ensure the correct application of the present Statutes and any other internal regulations, administer the property, assets and resources of the Association, manage the accounts, engage and supervise a Director, if necessary, and convene and organise the General Assembly.

2. Remuneration

   Board members are entitled to receive compensation in their capacity as Board Member and receive reimbursement of their effective costs and travel expenses in accordance with the Association’s internal regulations. Paid employees of the Association may only sit on the Board in an advisory capacity.

### 16. Appointment of the Board

The initial Board members are appointed by the Initial Members.

After that, the new members of the Board are appointed by the General Assembly, in a matter and under the terms it sees fit.

### 17. Composition

The Board shall be composed of at least one and at most seven members.

The Board designates amongst its members, a Chair, a Deputy Chair as well as any other function as it may deem necessary.

### 18. Term

Board members are appointed for a two-year term, renewable once.

### 19. Removal and Resignation

1. Removal

   Board members may be removed by the General Assembly for just cause, in particular if the Board member has violated his/her obligations towards the Association or if the Board member is not in a position to exercise his/her functions correctly.

2. Resignation

   Board members may resign at any time by submitting a written declaration to the Chair, specifying when the resignation shall take effect.

3. Vacancy during the term of office

   In the event of dismissal or resignation during the term of office, the Board may appoint a replacement member by co-optation, until the next meeting of the General Assembly.

### 20. Delegation and Representation

1. Delegation

   The Board is entitled to delegate certain of its tasks to one or more of the Board members, including to Board sub-committees, to third parties, or to hired employees.

2. Representation

   The Initial Members initially jointly represent the Association, until a first Board resolution designates the individuals or organizations, including DAOs, who are authorized to represent and bind the Association.

### 21. Board Meetings

1. Meetings

   The Board shall meet as often as required, but at least twice per year.

2. Process

   Board members may validly participate in a meeting of the Board in person, by video or telephone conference or any other means decided by the Board. In-person meetings can take place in Switzerland or abroad.

3. Convocation

   The Chair of the Board shall convene Board meetings at least 2 days in advance. The Chair may convene the Board ad hoc when justified by urgent circumstances.

### 22. Decision Making

1. Votes and majority

   Each Board member shall have one vote. Decisions are taken by a simple majority of all votes expressed, as long as the present Articles or other internal regulations of the Association do not provide for a different majority. In case of a tie, the Chair shall have a casting vote.

2. Decisions by circular letter

   Decisions may also validly be taken by written resolution, including by email or by way of cryptographic signing of transactions on the Association’s chosen distributed ledger technology.

3. Minutes

   Board meetings and decisions will be recorded in the minutes of the Board. A time-stamped transaction hash on the Association’s chosen distributed ledger is equivalent to minutes.

## VI. Miscellaneous and Final Provisions

### 23. Secretariat

The Board may create a secretariat and/or appoint a Director to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Association.

### 24. External Auditor

The Association, if not subject to the obligation to appoint an External Auditor, may nevertheless decide to appoint one (or more) External Auditor(s), who would prepare a report for the General Assembly’s attention.

### 25. Bookkeeping

1. Accounts

   Unless otherwise required, the Board shall only internally account for the income and expenditure as well as the assets and liabilities of the Association, and shall maintain the Association’s business ledgers, including distributed ledger records of transactions in and out of the wallets belonging to the Association.

2. Fiscal year

   The fiscal year begins on January 1st and ends on December 31st of each year.

### 26. Liability

The Association is solely liable for its debts and obligations, which are guaranteed by its assets, to the exclusion of all individual responsibility of its Members.

### 27. Dissolution

The Association may only be dissolved by a two-third (2/3) majority vote of all Members.

In such a case, the Board shall proceed with the liquidation of the Association.

The assets of the Association shall first serve to pay its creditors.

Remaining assets will be entirely assigned to a non-profit entity, which pursues similar public interest purposes and which is tax exempted.

In no event may the assets of the Association be returned to its founding members or Members, nor should they use some or all of the assets for their own benefit in any way.

**Date and Signature**

Date of the constituent meeting of the Association [DATE]

These Articles have been jointly signed by the Initial Members of the Association listed in Schedule A in their capacity as Representatives of the Association with transaction hash [HASH]

**Disclaimer**

These Articles have been made available on an “as is” basis by OtoCo. However, OtoCo and its affiliates cannot be held responsible for the use of this document and it should not be considered as legal advice. Each Association is responsible for drafting its own articles in accordance with Swiss law and its own needs and objectives, and to seek proper and independent legal advice.

## Schedule A - Initial Member Wallet Addresses

- [ADDRESS 1]
- [ADDRESS 2]
